---
author: Arun Bhai
date: '1980-06-07 23:49:42'
layout: post
slug: thrissur
status: publish
tags: [general]
title: A little intro to Thrissur
wordpress_id: '55'
---

<em>Thanks to Malayala Manorama for <a href="http://www.manoramaonline.com/servlet/ContentServer?pagename=manorama/MmArticle/CommonFullStory&cid=1017119972287&c=MmArticle&channel=Travel&count=8">this article</a></em>

<h2>The Festival of Festivals - Thrissur Pooram</h2>

<strong>Venue</strong>
Thekkinkadu (literally, Teak forest) ground, in the heart of Thrissur town, North Kerala.

<strong>Attractions</strong>
Processions of majestically caparisoned elephants, changing of sequinned parasols and fireworks display. Thrissur is best known for its mammoth Pooram festival held in the Malayalam month of Medam (April-May). It is the most colourful and spectacular temple festival of Kerala. See for yourselves a glimpse of this mega festival. Devotees and spectators from all parts of the State and even outside throng the Pooram. Introduced during the reign of Sakthan Thampuran (1775-1790), the Raja of Kochi, Pooram is an assemblage of suburban deities before the presiding deity at the Vadakkumnathan (Siva) temple in down town Thrissur. The Pooram celebration is held at the the Thekkinkadu grounds. Traditionally, two groups representing the main geographic divisions of Thrissur, Paramekkavu Temple and Thiruvambadi Temple, rival to add to the Pooram's grandeur. Both teams field face to face arrays of richly caparisoned elephants. And then 'Kudamattam', a competition in the swift and rhythmic changing of brightly coloured and sequinned parasols is conducted. The whole event takes place in rhythm with the traditional orchestra 'Pandimelam'.

The name 'Thrissur' itself, derived from Tiru-Siva-Perur (the town with the name of Lord Siva) is often referred to as the cultural capital of Kerala because Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Academy (Academy for music & drama), Kerala Sahitya Academy (Academy for literature), Kerala Lalithakala Academy (Academy for fine arts) and Kerala Kalamandalam are all situated here.

<strong>Getting there</strong>
Thrissur is linked by rail and road to most major towns inside and outside Kerala.
Nearest airport: Cochin International Airport, about 58 km from Thrissur town.<!--1649e2dcd9e29ab2141bf0e8e56bb9cc--><!--edd5aed7ba023d189bdb58f690d04f30--><!--4e53fc9469d5b9f51dac71c278b3dd87-->
