---
author: Arun Bhai
date: '2004-08-21 16:40:16'
layout: post
slug: attack-of-the-herd-brains
status: publish
tags: [general]
title: Attack of the Herd Brains
wordpress_id: '14'
---

Yesterday, I watched "I, Robot" fully anxious with excitement of<br />watching a sci-fi movie. Having written read many sci-fi short stoies<br />and written one or two odd sci-fis myself, I was really looking forward<br />to see a creation of none other than Issac Asimov himself. I'm pleased<br />to say it was the best movie I'd seen this season. I have grown to<br />dislike what I'd call "franchised movies", like Spiderman, which is made<br />to satisfy a different audience than movie goers. Hence a typical movie<br />goer would never get the same sort of satisfaction as a regular movie. I<br />subscribe to my good friend Karthik's taste of having a complete story<br />in those 2 hours. That's the beauty of "I, Robot". The screenplay and<br />the cast seemed to gel perfectly. The "Minority Report" style art<br />direction didn't fail to enthrall yet again.<br /><br />Yesterday, Dinky brought his camera along and considering the beautiful<br />campus of Infosys, the shutters went chanting 'Click', 'Click',<br />'Click'...all the time. Apparently, Abeer who was supposed to be in Pune<br />(Peoplesoft financials) is now here in Finacle for the past 10 days! The<br />other surprises of the day were Aby's call for his laptop buy and<br />Shine's messenger buzz.<br /><br />Today's meat for discussion would be the typical 'Herd Brain' of most<br />MBAs. Yes, the so-called poised and enterprising tribe that emerges out<br />of premier B-schools every year. Almost every one of them are hung up on<br />getting tasks higher up in the value chain. The motto is to get there<br />and get there faster. The operational part is usually "uncool" for this<br />band of ego-driven megalomaniacs. Sadly this is a mentality that is<br />implanted in their heads at a much early stage; at the stage of being<br />"aspirants". It could may well have been their only sane reason to do<br />MBA too! The implication is that this vast majority of "aspirants" serve<br />as a very effective myth propaganda machine and it gets to....you know,<br />a vicious circle. The problem is so crucial that he next Scot Adam's<br />strip might be focused on a "Herd Brain" type of character.<br /><br />I believe that the media also has a lot to do with this. Every single<br />business magazine that the MBAs or "aspirants" lap up so fondly brings<br />out many success stories with a sharp stereotype. There is no past for<br />that stereotype and he is the best in breed for that functional area and<br />his present job is anything but operational. He might be still doing<br />operational but that isn't sexy enough for lack of precious column<br />space. And of course he would be covered in the riches of Arabia, curvy<br />pouting bombshells and would hop the globe as matter of routine. Nobody<br />mentions how obsessed he was (and still is) about the details of the<br />companies operations and how hard he worked till he was familiar with<br />every aspect of it. He was not always the "finance" guy or "marketing"<br />guy till now. He was the "everything" guy.<br /><br />I feel today's MBAs are not obsessed with the area of a company's<br />operation well enough. They are too impatient to let the natural<br />evolution to happen. It's this preconceived mindset that characterizes<br />the Herd Brain and ultimately dooms it to oblivion.<br /><br />Next time I'll write about Sodipodi and Gimp, the tools of a Linux<br />Artist.<br /><br />
