---
author: Arun Bhai
date: '2004-08-20 09:49:40'
layout: post
slug: topping-the-ipo
status: publish
tags: [general]
title: Topping the IPO
wordpress_id: '15'
---

Yesterday in a continuing series to a string of surprise
appearances Himanshu Arora, who is another ACON from my previous
batch, appeared talking to my PL (Nitin). It seems he is moving in
to our project. He came down from Hyderabad and he himself got the
news two days back. Now it seems he will join Piyush onsite.

The day before one of my junies needed help in their CRM
assignment. I made his day by spewing a couple of pages of some of
the best CRM stuff Ive written, perhaps ever Again, when you get
in the flow, there is now stopping, right? Dinky is coming to the
DC today and Im gonna make sure I get some IDs of junies. They
seem to be so lazy to mail. Geez, how ironical!

Well, another good news is that, finally, my site appears right at
the top if you type Arun Ravindran in google. Try
[http://www.google.com/custom?q=Arun+Ravindran](http://www.google.com/custom?q=Arun+Ravindran)
this is really cool! Though there is another Dr. Arun Ravindran and
an M.Sc Arun. V. Ravindran (My full name in Infosys!), I actually
made it. The Google IPO is out and had a terrible start with the
cutting down of the share price. Google is one of my favourite
companies and this really broke my heart. I saw Kill Bill Vol 1
yesterday. The blood fountains and wriggle the big toe sequences
were typical Tarantino.

Today is the earliest I made to Blore office so far, excluding the
first day of course, which is 8:45 pm. I finally shelled out the
damn room rent which the receptionist (who BTW is a Kannadiga named
Bintage!) was bugging me about. As expected it was too early for
office. But anyway, at least, now I know.

These days Im back to the MBA mode of thought. More business and
money minded in every thought, all thanks to Shiv who gave me a
reality shock the other day. It was actually not just because of
that, we went down to IIMB in Bannergatta Road and got quite
disappointed with the infrastructure. It wasnt a big deal after
all. The library had about 0.18 million books and in quite a
disarray. I would love to be in my library anyday. But I must say
there were some rare books which could have helped for my summer at
least. Coincidentally, my MBA timings are also back, namely, 5 ½
hours sleep. God! Whats happening to me?

Oops! Time to get back to work. I just finished mastering XML
Schemas and Nant, Ive no idea whats in store for me today.



