---
author: Arun Bhai
date: '2007-11-29 20:56:41'
layout: post
slug: best-software-doesnt-have-to-be-the-hardest-to-make
status: publish
tags: [gaming, general]
title: Best Software Doesn't Have To Be The Hardest To Make
wordpress_id: '110'
---

![A dusty road](http://farm2.static.flickr.com/1150/1012408463_4c032d07d1_d.jpg)

Many, many moons ago, I used to frequent a long dusty and
weed-ridden road with the dreams of a pompous education. While the
path opened many doors, the dream still remained a mere mirage. The
chasm between IT ‘Real World’ and my Engineering classes was
shockingly wide, deep and treacherous. My
[Govt. Engineering College](http://www.gectcr.edu/) is still an
asylum for Dreamers. Their eyes are still full of dreams and heads
full of unfinished ideas.

But after those 4 years, I am not disillusioned. Actually, far from
it, I have the fondest memories of trying (perhaps in vain) to try
and make a difference, to an educational system gathering dust.
‘Softcorner’ was one such attempt that I had spearheaded. Apart
from coining a punningly clever name for a software exhibition. I
tried to make the demo’ed software as approachable to the ‘Average
Joe’ as possible (You might wonder how many Average Joe’s one would
find in an Engg college. Trust me, plenty!!). We designed a mascot
character who would explain different technical concepts in a
simple language through posters. I had to think how to visualize
concepts like Huffman encoding and Data Structures in the language
of comics. In fact, some of my friends didn’t know I could draw
until that day
![;)](http://www.arunrocks.com/blog/wp-includes/images/smilies/icon_wink.gif)

Of course, a software exhibition would be incomplete without cool
software. We had some bright fellows who were developing pretty
interesting software thanks to [Pramod Sir](http://pramode.net/),
who gave us lots of guidance. But we needed many more projects to
make it truly a moderate sized exhibition. I, for one, felt a lot
more responsible and wanted to develop 3 or 4 projects in this
short time span. Being a little egoistical, I wanted them to be
decent crowd pullers as well. In hindsight, a major handicap was
that there was no Internet connection, so ‘online applications’
were out-of-question. So in circa 2001, this zeroed down to
practically using Visual Basic 6.0.

I had 3 project ideas at that time:

1.  A
    [Kaun Banega Crorepathi](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kaun_Banega_Crorepati)
    (KBC) Simulator
2.  A [Biorhythm](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biorhythm)
    Calculator
3.  A simple VGA game

My timeline was one week. Please note that I had to manage the
logistics of preparing for Softcorner in parallel (I am not going
to add ‘meanwhile complete my assignments’, because it wasn’t much
of a workload then). All these applications had to look attractive
and should be
[running full screen](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_kiosk).

![From the TV Show](http://farm1.static.flickr.com/157/423505555_2020c667da_m_d.jpg)

As it turns out, the first project was easiest to code. KBC is
basically the Indian clone of the gameshow based on ‘Who Wants to
Be a Millionaire?’ All the game requires is a way of picking random
questions and allowing the player to pick among four alternatives.
Regular viewers of the show are quite familiar with the hexagonal
interface and gimmicky confirmatory questions by the
[host](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amitabh_Bachchan) like ‘Lock
Kiya Jaaye’ or ‘Confident?’. Armed with Photoshop and a GK book,
all this went into the design of the game. The whole affair didn’t
take that long and within one night, I had the EXE ready (What a
productive one night stand
![;)](http://www.arunrocks.com/blog/wp-includes/images/smilies/icon_wink.gif)
!)

![Fateful Graphs](http://farm1.static.flickr.com/103/272436400_bc0c2d4264_m_d.jpg)

But the second project turned out to be the hardest to make,
despite being the second time I was developing a Biorhythm
application. The date functions and the math never seemed to find a
middle ground. I also didn’t have a working Biorhythm calculator to
confirm. So in terms of testing, this baby was a nightmare. But I
must admit that with its cool sinusoidal graphs and calendar
buttons, I was extremely proud of it when it was finished.

![Games are no monkey business](http://farm1.static.flickr.com/24/36293933_13c99d5c5d_t_d.jpg)

The game was pretty much [DOS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MS_DOS)
based and used [Allegro](http://www.liballeg.org/) for graphics. It
was a variant of
“[Bouncing](http://www.dosgamesarchive.com/download/game/100)
[Babies](http://www.mobygames.com/game/bouncing-babies/)” except
with Chimps. It had pretty much all the usual features of a DOS
game like High scores list, Help screens and various difficulty
levels. It was fun designing the physics for this game(isn’t it
always so
![;)](http://www.arunrocks.com/blog/wp-includes/images/smilies/icon_wink.gif)
?), but certainly not eye candy for the masses. Again, adding all
the features, took quite a bit of coding in C++.

The D-day finally came and we were all tensed. We tried to market
as best as we could. If we pulled-in only the “geek crowd” and some
senior lecturers, then it would turn out to be a flop show. So, we
tried the simplest trick in the book, *attract more girls*! It was
simpler than we thought, we started distributing some handouts to
the ‘target population’ (an MBA term I later picked up) and also
some extensive word-of-mouth publicity. The crowds slowly trickled
in and soon a bunch of wide-eyed girls are listening intently to a
demonstration of ‘Huffman’s Compression Algorithm’.

Being egoistical, as mentioned earlier, I always kept an eye on my
3 projects and the results still astound me. The first project was
without exaggeration the star of the show. Many wanted copies of
the simulator and wanted to know how it worked(!) They kept
pondering over questions like - ‘Why does it repeat some
questions?’ (it had some 30 odd questions in its database), ‘How
does it make such smart comments?’ (random no: generator) etc. If
you have ever seen the original game show, the main selling point
is the tension built just before the participant answers the
question. The viewers hang at the edge of their seats wondering if
the words coming out the person on the hot seat will take him/her
to the next higher rung or seal his/her fate forever. Many felt
that my simulator could recreate a bit of that drama successfully.

It was an important lesson at that point. Basically,
*Do your research well before you start coding*. Spending Herculean
effort on any venture will make you biased on judging the success
of the project. But often, simple but effective ideas ‘click’.
Probably, I should say one of the best lessons I learnt from GEC.

*PS: All images are copyrighted by their respective owners. They are not screen shots of the software mentioned in the article*



